---
title: '0b00101111'
permalink: /thought_bytes/0b00101111
layout: email_template
---
Sorry for missing last week's newsletter. The last two weeks have been extremely busy since we're launching the first part of the Edith platform. The platform allows students to ask for various kinds of help like resume reviews, mock interviews, referrals, or just ask a question, and mentors on the platform can respond to these students one-on-one.

My co-founder Nick wrote more about our first launch [here](https://edithlabs.com/introducing-edith/){:target='_blank'}. If you'd be interested in joining as a mentor or student, or know anyone who would be, please reach out and I'd love to chat with you about it and help you get started.

This week's newsletter covers my thoughts on signaling, something I've been thinking a lot about especially in the context of Edith. I'm also almost done with *Kochland*, the book on the story of Charles Koch and Koch industries (it's quite a long book). I'll be sending my reading notes on that next week.

Hope you're staying safe and healthy and see you next week ✌️

<hr class='after-post-hr'/>

## Thought Bit: Signaling

Signaling determines how easy it is to access various opportunities from getting an interview at Google to meeting with a VC.

It's interesting to view signaling in the context of social media platforms today. Eugene Wei wrote an interesting (but super long) [article](https://www.eugenewei.com/blog/2019/2/19/status-as-a-service){:target='_blank'} on the idea of status as a service.

Social media platforms are status games, where each one has its own social currency. There's the idea of "proof-of-work" - a challenging task or activity to get this currency which is easy-ish at first to get but then gets progressively harder.

Every social media platform has a proof-of-work task. Twitter's proof-of-work is making witty comments in 280 characters or less. TikTok is filming a creative video. Instagram is posting images that get you likes and follows.

At first, when there are few users, it's easier to get attention and build up your social capital on the platform in the form of likes, follows, or views. As the platforms get larger, getting attention becomes much more competitive. You compete with not just other users, but the algorithms companies use to curate their news feeds.

In reality, signaling is really just proof-of-work. Organizations, companies, people - they're inherently risk-averse so they rely on signaling (proof-of-work) to make their decisions. The college you went to did the hard part of going through your college app and figuring out if you were "talented". Big tech companies with high bars for entry did the hard part of interviewing you to make sure you were qualified for the job.

Unfortunately, many of reality's signals are gated and require having signal already. College applications look at things highly correlated with strong economic standing - SAT scores, essays showing your multi-faceted interests, and success in school. Even if you go to a good school, you need the right connections to out-signal other people to get the right internships, join the right clubs, and connect with the right mentors.

If generating signal through your school, job, and experiences leads to success, then the rich (in signal) get richer (more success, status, wealth, fulfilling careers), while the poor (low signal) stay poor (lack of opportunity or investment in their future).

My opinion is that you need to break the relationship between signal and opportunity. How do you get people to bet on those without traditional forms of signaling? Because betting on a student with strong signal (good school, good internships, etc.) leads to the same outcome as in the case you bet on low signal (unknown school, little experience), there's no reason to give opportunities to those people. As a consequence, those opportunities become limited if you don't have signal.

In order to break this relationship, there have to be incentives to invest in the underinvested, either in the form social capital or financial capital. There's a lot of talented people out there - we just need a reason to find and mentor these people, and society's traditional forms of signaling aren't going to cut it.

<!-- I've often thought about how much signaling interplays with the things we do, the careers we have access to, and the connections we can make. The school you went to determines how easily you can get an interview at some of the top tech companies. The internships you get in your first two years of college determine your chances of landing one of the top jobs out -->
<!--
Even college clubs can be competitive. Many clubs at Berkeley have an applications process, with admit rates equivalent to some of the most competitive colleges. In the early years of college, I was rejected several times from a software engineering club that worked on projects for social good.

But, how do you signal when you have no signal?

Two articles I read this week provided some interesting perspectives on signaling, and by extension, status.

* My brother sent me the first article: [Signaling as a Service](https://julian.digital/2020/03/28/signaling-as-a-service/){:target='_blank'}.
* [The second article](https://www.eugenewei.com/blog/2019/2/19/status-as-a-service){:target='_blank'} focuses more on status and how social media platforms have made status into a currency.



as something that looks good on your resume. Or weigh a job offer from Google or a small startup but lean toward Google because if they switch jobs, having Google on your resume appears more valuable.





My brother sent me this interesting article by about signaling as a service. The main point of the article is about how many of the things people do, like buy nice shoes, read challenging books, or post photos of them on Instagram, are just various forms of signaling.

Even the process of sending out this newsletter is signaling. Why else are parents obsessed with what school you went to, what places you've worked at, or what companies you started with? A Google internship on your resume will at least get you an interview anywhere. A successful startup exit will get you a VC meeting for your next venture. -->