---
title: '0b00110111'
permalink: /thought_bytes/0b00110111
layout: email_template
---

In solidarity with this week's protests, I wanted to use this week's newsletter to advocate for a humanity-first society.

One of my core principles is to view people as people: no race, no religion, no economic status. Every person has a story, and when you understand that story, it's hard to hate. From my favorite book *Ender's Game:*

> I think it’s impossible to really understand somebody, what they want, what they believe, and not love them the way they love themselves.

George Floyd had a story. A trucker who moved from Texas to Minnesota to build a better life, "twin" of well-known NBA player Stephen Jackson, and father to his daughter back home. Every peaceful protestor has a story. Every rioter and looter has a story. Even every police officer has a story.

It's hard to excuse the actions of police officers brutally attacking peaceful protestors or looters destroying local businesses. Racist comments and behavior should never be tolerated, and just one instance of a police officer killing an African-American man is one too many. But at the end of the day, we need to listen, hear the stories of the people on all sides, whether we like them or not, and shed light on society's problems.

I highly recommend reading Ben Thompson's piece [Dust in the Light](https://stratechery.com/2020/dust-in-the-light/) on how the internet is helping shed light on the issue of racism. Because the internet is open, because everyone has a cell phone, because Trump tweets every thought he has, we're able to shed light on these problems. From Kareem Abdul Jabbar:

> African Americans have been living in a burning building for many years, choking on the smoke as the flames burn closer and closer. Racism in America is like dust in the air. It seems invisible — even if you’re choking on it — until you let the sun in. Then you see it’s everywhere. As long as we keep shining that light, we have a chance of cleaning it wherever it lands. But we have to stay vigilant, because it’s always still in the air.

It's better that things are out in the open because there's a chance that we can change it. Call out the racist comments. Hear the challenges African-Americans and other minorities face. Share videos of police brutality.

But shedding the light has to go past the internet. The silos of social media exist just as strongly, if not stronger, in the physical world. Basically the only time I've talked to a Trump supporter was in Iowa. I haven't had a conversation with a cop, firefighter, or anyone who works in public safety. I've only seen one friend share a photo or video participating in a protest.

We live in silos and barely, if ever, cross that line to the other side to listen to their story. But if something is to change, someone has to cross that line and share their story. If not, it's just going to keep being us vs. them, a country forever divided.

Regarding financial action to take (if possible), if there's one piece of policy I care about and I'd fight for, it's universal basic income (UBI). It would eradicate poverty, improve educational outcomes by stabilizing households, improve mental health, reduce crime, revitalize local communities. I can go on and on about how UBI would change this country, especially poor minority communities. In support of building a floor for everyone in this country to stand on, regardless of race, religion, and economic status, I'm donating to [Andrew Yang's Humanity Forward](https://movehumanityforward.com) non-profit.

This truly feels like an unprecedented time. A president who seems more concerned about dividing the country than leading, a pandemic that everyone has forgotten about, and racial tensions coming to a boil. Change takes a catalyst, and we have a hell of a lot of catalysts right now.

These may not have been the right words to say, but these are my thoughts and reflections on what has been happening these past few weeks. Always happy to discuss and hear more perspectives on everything that has been going on.

Have a safe week,

Kevin