---
layout: post
image: '../images/chicago.jpg'
title:  'A Personal Perspective'
permalink: /a-personal-perspective
---
Since graduating in May 2018, I’ve lived and worked in Berkeley, San Francisco, South Bay, Chicago, and New York. I’ve driven across the country and back, visiting Yellowstone, the Arches in Utah, the Grand Tetons, and other national wonders along the way, and also flying the same route across the country another five times. I met the girl of my dreams 3000 miles away from home in New York, who grew up in a house a block a way from the dream home my parents are in the process of building. I left the area that everyone wants to move to and instead took a job in a city where the average population has declined for the past five years. I've learned the fundamentals of finance and capital markets, developed tools to study corporate debt, and studied how to algorithmically trade various commodities while working for one of the top firms in the business. I dropped three percent in body fat percentage and proceeded to gain half of it back. I’ve experimented with blockchain and sports gambling, seen my investments rise and fall in a volatile market, and listened to hundreds of hours of podcasts. I’ve felt sad, lonely, and unfulfilled, but also grateful, content, and loved. Through it all, I've learned the true value of friendship and how special proximity to friends and family is.

It’s hard being thousands of miles away from home, but my experiences since I've graduated have given me context and perspective. Leaving academic life for the time being has also helped me realize that I'm constantly trying to learn. I spend a lot of my free moments listening to podcasts, reading books and articles, and working on side projects that apply some of the ideas I've been kicking around in my head. Working life has given me a lot of time to introspect and this introspection inspired *Life In Bytes*. I hope to grow this personal blog to be a place to share a first-principles data-driven perspective on anything from socioeconomic and political issues to tech and lifestyle. While I live nowhere near a perfect life, I still hope *Life In Bytes* can give you a different way of looking at things and maybe even change the way you see the world.