---
layout: post
image: '../images/berkeley.jpg'
title:  '42 Things'
permalink: /42-things
---

When I first moved to college, I printed out Ben Jones 50 Things article and pinned it up by my bedside. I would occasionally reread the article and reflect on how I was living my college life. To this day, I still do some of the things on the list like make a playlist for a chapter of my life (number 3). Inspired by his article, I decided to create my own list of things to do and think about while in college based on my experiences in undergrad.

1. Be open to change. From your interests to your friends to your fashion, nothing about college is static.
2. Teach. Whether it’s tutoring a class you’ve taken or volunteering at a local elementary school, you not only give back to the community but learn a lot from the students.
3. Don’t compare yourself to others. Everyone goes at their own pace, from classes to internships to social life. Others can be inspirations, but focus on where you are and how you can get better.
4. The first friends you meet won’t be the only ones. Don’t be afraid to meet new people and join or create new friend groups.
5. Start investing. Don’t just blow all your internship money. This thing known as compound interest is pretty great and you’ll thank yourself in the future.
6. Read for fun. It’s hard to find time during a hectic school schedule, but nothing broadens your perspective or transports you to a new world like a good book.
7. Find your community. Whether it’s a club, a sports team, or your college dorm floor, there is a place for everyone. Sometimes you just have to work to find it.
8. Make a four year plan. You don’t have to stick to it, but having the big picture in mind allows you to focus on the day to day things that will lead you there.
9. Focus not just on the concepts, but the process of solving problems. You probably won’t remember Green’s Theorem or Gauss’s Law in four years, but the mindset for solving any problem will stick with you.
10. Take classes to learn, not for the grade. You’ll find that if you really learn the material, the grade will come.
11. Don’t go to class if you don’t get something out of it. For many, lectures are some of the least productive uses of time. But if you don’t go, do something productive with that extra time like read the textbook or work on the problem sets.
12. Go to office hours. I must admit I didn’t do this enough and didn’t realize how useful they were until I became a TA, but it’s a great way to connect with professors and TAs and find community in large classes.
13. Relax before exams. Whether it means working out, taking a walk, or watching a movie, it’s way more important to decompress than cram up until last minute. I’ve found if I’m cramming for an exam, I’m probably not going to do well anyways.
14. Relax during exams. These aren’t life or death situations. You think clearer and are much more creative when you’re relaxed. Take a deep breath and just believe in all the studying you (hopefully) did.
15. Study with friends. Even if you’re not studying the same thing, friends can help break up the monotony of sitting quietly in a library.
16. Take classes outside of your major, even if you don’t have to. From astronomy to voice class, those classes give you a different perspective and could be some of the most fun classes you take.
17. Work out. It’s important for your health, helps you destress, and also builds confidence.
18. Learn to cook. Not only is it healthier and saves money, it’s a great skill to develop for life.
19. Take care of yourself. Shower, brush your teeth, and eat right. It’s impossible to do well in school if you’re not right first.
20. Join something you never thought you’d do. I joined a dance team. It was embarrassing. But at least I tried something new.
21. Travel during your winter and spring breaks. Once you start working it’s hard to take multi-week trips with friends.
22. Make your summers productive. If you have the flexibility to not take summer classes, don’t just lounge around at home. Find an internship, study abroad, or do research and teach. Summers are amazing opportunities to try something new and you only get four or so college summers in your life.
23. Be aware of the what’s happening in the world. It’s easy to be trapped in the bubble of a college town.
24. Don’t focus completely on your career. Do things you love from playing sports, hanging out with friends, or music.
25. Join a club. Only in college do you have diverse communities where you can try anything from dance to music to design.
26. Live close to campus. It’s worth being close to the community and also one less obstacle keeping you from going to class and spontaneously hanging out with friends.
27. Push yourself early. Your motivation will probably go down over time and it’s important to learn to balance your workload and find your personal limits, so might as well do it early.
28. Don’t be afraid to date. You may meet the person you marry; you may not. But it’s important to learn what you’re looking for in a significant other, and there’s no better time to do that in college.
29. Take time to think. It’s easy to just go through the motions and let the days go by. Only when you think and introspect do all the things that happened come together.
30. Go to social activities. The assignment that’s due can wait. Years later you’re going to remember that Friday night going out with your friends, not sitting at home working on an assignment.
31. Sometimes walk through campus without headphones and without looking at your phone. Take in the sights and sounds. Only when you’re a student can you walk through campus with that feeling of belonging and purpose.
32. Explore campus. Whether it’s studying in a new library or walking a roundabout way home, try to see every part of the school.
33. Explore the community, especially if you’re fortunate to have a great college town around your school.
34. Don’t just study in a library. Find a cute local coffee shop or a unique place on campus. The novelty can be both inspiring and relaxing.
35. Look for housing early, and talk to older friends about housing. Sometimes the best way to find a great apartment is to get it handed off from a friend.
36. Join something and grow in your involvement in it. I stuck with the same club for four years, going from just a member to the president, and it was one of the most meaningful experiences during my four years.
37. Sleep! It’s important for both your health and your happiness, and nothing is better than a fresh mind when going to class or social activities
38. Don’t be afraid to speak up, whether it’s in class, in a club meeting, or at a party.
39. Be genuine and don’t be a dick. People appreciate and remember people that are nice and are comfortable being themselves.
40. Sometimes your closest friends will be those you didn’t even think you’d be friends with. All you need is one conversation to spark a crazy friendship.
41. Appreciate every moment. Whether you’re a first year feeling like you have so much time ahead of you, a third year overly stressed about upper division courses, or a senior waiting to get out of school, don’t take any of it for granted. The challenges you face, the friends you make, the things you learn - every experience defines your college experience in a unique way.
42. College is what you make of it. Come in with an open mind. College isn’t necessarily the best four years of your life like it’s advertised to be, but it’s a unique experience and one that can change you, only if you let it.