---
title: The Future of Apple
permalink: /future-of-apple
layout: post
image: /images/apple.jpg
excerpt: A reflection of Apple's yearly iPhone keynote titled *By Innovation Only*. Apple builds a great ecosystem of products, but we shouldn't expect innovation from Apple anymore. Where we should actually be expecting innovation to be coming from.
---
It’s that time of year again when Apple releases a new iPhone. I’ve religiously tuned in to every Apple keynote over the last couple years, and this might have been the least interesting one I’ve watched.

The hardware updates have gotten more mundane as phone technologically seems to have reached an asymptote, and clearly the overemphasis on camera technology indicates a lack of innovation in other areas.

Apple has always appealed to me because of its integrated ecosystem of software (notes, photos, and messages that sync seamlessly across all devices and Airplay to stream videos and music are my personal favorites), so the lack of hardware updates won’t deter me from sticking with Apple’s hardware, so long as Apple provides a technology ecosystem vastly superior to other companies.

However, this speaks to the shrinking hardware moat and leveraging their hardware moat into a stronger software moat by pushing to services. Services has never really been [Apple’s strength](https://stratechery.com/2016/apples-organizational-crossroads/){:target='_blank'}, but their vast pool of Apple fan boys and fan girls gives them a huge subscriber base to work with.

What’s most interesting about this push to services is the transition from Apple as an innovator to Apple as a sustainer: sustain the iPhone as the leader in phone hardware and generate incremental revenue through services. There’s nothing wrong with that business model, and the market has rewarded the company (up about 3% since the event). This is the root of a lot of the criticism Apple has received prior to the event: Apple is no longer the innovator.

Apple is going to remain relevant so long as the phone is the main means of interaction with the internet. While I’m not here to predict the next medium of interacting with the internet (glasses, contact lens, a brain machine interface, or something even crazier), it’s hard to imagine Apple going all-in on new technology that would destroy their key revenue driver (the iPhone) nor do they have any incentive to.

History tells us that innovation happens when an upstart changes the dimensions of the playing field by going all in on a new paradigm. IBM and their mainframes were left in the dust when Microsoft introduced PCs and operating systems. Apple leapfrogged Microsoft with mobile phones and again revolutionized our interaction with technology. But the future is going to be a small upstart that approaches their paradigm just as Apple approached the iPhone: all in.