---
title: Lessons from a Year of Work
permalink: /lessons-2019
layout: post
image: /images/berkeley-sunset.jpg
---

These are my reflections after about one year of working. These ideas may not work for everyone, but hopefully challenge you to think about what you've learned in the past year, no matter what stage of life you're in.

<hr class='post-hr'/>

#### **Take care of your life stuff.**

Finding a place to live, insurance, finances, and health. If those things aren't in line, you're going to have trouble sleeping, be stressed at work, and spend all your free time dealing with those things. It may be annoying to file taxes early, read about your health insurance, or keep a diligent budget, but those are the things that need to be done to give you the freedom to do things that you want.

It cost me a couple hundred dollars because I didn't understand my dental coverage and went to an HMO dentist instead of an in-network PPO dentist. Investing in making sure to do these things right will save you a lot of time, money, and stress in the future.

Taking care of your health is also essential. I worked out a lot through high school and college, and I've maintained that habit through my first year of work. I can't emphasize enough the benefits of working out. It's improved my health, focus and confidence. I don't meditate, but exercise acts as my meditation, giving me an hour or so to think about nothing and break the monotony of sitting and using my brain. While it may cost me an hour every day, I think the productivity gains help me maximize the remaining brain time I have in my day.

<hr class='post-hr' />

#### **Do things that leverage and compound yourself.**

Everyone has the same 24 hours in a day. Most people who work coming out of school will spend 8 to 12 of those hours working and 8 or so of those hours sleeping. That means you have 4 hours every day for yourself. Those are the hours that separate you from others.

Leveraging yourself is doing things that multiply the amount of output you can do. Coding is an obvious example of this. It allows you to teach a machine to do what you want and automate repeated tasks. Writing online is another high-leverage activity. Writing online has allowed me to reconnect with people I've worked with in the past and engage in dialogue about content I consume and create.

Compounding yourself means doing things that reap dividends in the future. Watching TV or a night of partying might be great in the moment, but provide little expected value in the future. Learning a new skill, having deep conversations with others, or reading books and blog posts are all examples of compounding activities that benefit you now and even more in the long term.

You won't see the compounding benefits until an indeterminate amount of time later, just as you don't really feel the benefits of your compounding monetary investments. But it's important to never stop learning. Unlike school, those 4 hours a day you have to grow are unstructured. No one is telling you what books to read, what classes to take, or what projects to work on. Just do what's interesting at first and build up the right habits. Then you'll transition to more challenging things and discover more interests. If you don't know what's interesting to you, find others who do interesting things, which leads to my next point.

<hr class='post-hr' />

#### **Surround yourself with people you aspire to be like, both online and in reality.**

The people you aspire to be like got there for a reason. The internet allows you to bring these people to your sphere of consciousness. Leverage the internet to connect with inspirational individuals online. Twitter is one of the best ways to do this. David Perell, Benedict Evans, Ben Thompson, Naval Ravikant, and Nassim Taleb are some of my favorite follows.

The purpose of following these people is not to constantly think "Why am I not like so and so and he's only 23 years old too?". It's so you're constantly thinking "What can I do differently that so and so is doing?". The more you surround yourself with people that you aspire to be like, the more you can filter out the signal from the noise, and figure out what works for you.

Now back to reality. Maintain the relationships you made through college. My trick is to keep one common thread  that ties you together with another person. Common ones for me are working out, working on a project, or investments. These relationships are essential to having candid conversation and exposing yourself to different life perspectives.

I've been fortunate to live with my close friend [Nick](https://nickchua.me){:target='_blank'} as it's sparked conversations about a lot of crazy ideas, challenged each of us to develop our blogs and newsletter, and kept us accountable with our health.

<hr class='post-hr' />

#### Savor your 20s.
<center>
<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Gentlemen, up until the age of 25, people will forgive your mistakes and believe in your potential <br><br>25-30, this drops off, you’re lucky if your parents still “believe in you” <br><br>30+, you’re a ghost, and no cares about you. You’re on your own entirely <br><br>Don’t waste your 20s</p>&mdash; Alexander J.A Cortes (@AJA_Cortes) <a href="https://twitter.com/AJA_Cortes/status/1150983656506159105?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 16, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</center>

I couldn't stop thinking about this tweet after I read it. While this tweet isn't entirely true in my opinion, there definitely is something uniquely powerful about being a young college graduate in their 20s. You can ask questions and not know something and it's completely ok. People make time for you because they're invested in your growth potential. You can work on ideas others think are completely crazy. Being a young college graduate in their 20s is an asset.

Nassim Taleb always talks about identifying the undervalued assets in society. In my opinion, the fact there is high forgiveness for failure in your early 20s is undervalued. Most people come out of top schools and get a cushy, well-paying job - a fairly low risk proposition - as I did. Savoring my early 20s is grabbing onto more risk. I'm excited to see what challenges this next year will bring.




