---
title: "Thought Bytes #54"
slug: 54
date: '2020-05-28'
type: original
---
Happy Friday! Sorry for missing last week's newsletter - I needed a mental break from writing but feeling much more refreshed this week.

I recently finished *The Last Dance,* the ESPN documentary covering Michael Jordan's last season. The one thing I'll remember is not a Jordan highlight or even anything he said, but Mark Vancil's words on what makes Jordan great:

> Most people struggle to be present. People go sit in ashrams for 20 years in India trying to be present. Do yoga. Meditate. Trying to get here. Now. Most people live in fear because we project the past into the future. Michael’s a mystic. He was never anywhere else. … His gift was not that he could jump high, run fast, shoot a basketball. His gift was that he was completely present. And that was the separator.

Staying present is something I've constantly struggled with my whole life, and I know many people do too. It's easy to focus on the next big thing, whether its the job you got after you're graduate from college or the vacation you have lined up after quarantine. Even day-to-day, I catch myself asking what's for dinner as I'm cooking lunch.

We can't change the past and the future is indefinite - it's in the present moment where we can actually make change. Being truly present in the moment is becoming harder every day. At any moment, you can check Twitter or Reddit, take a peek at how the market is doing, or send a text to a friend. So in any moment, when you're working on your craft, talking to a friend, reading a book - are you ever truly, fully present?

When Vancil says that's actually Jordan's gift, I believe him. He may have had superhuman athleticism and a legendary competitiveness, just as Steve Jobs had the magic touch in designing products or Bill Gates had insane smarts. But it would've meant nothing if Jordan wasn't 100% focused on winning in every moment in practice, in a regular season game, or in the finals.

## Startup Notes

The past few weeks at Edith have been focused around fundraising. It's a process I've never been a part of, so it's been a great learning experience for me. I'll go into more details once we've wrapped up the process, but I wanted to share my interim learnings for now.

1. You don't get a ton of shots at bat, so creating opportunities to practice pitching and explaining your idea is important.

    You only get so many in-person meetings with VCs, especially at an early stage. Every opportunity to explain your idea with someone is an opportunity to practice. Personally, Nick and I have joined LunchClub (a service that connects you with other people in your industry), Startup School discussions (YC's startup class), and talked to countless mentors and students on our platform. Each conversation is a way to test different ways of explaining Edith and our pitch has really evolved over time.

2. Find the right balance of long-term vision and what you're doing now.

    YC's advice on describing your startup is to keep it simple and focus on the now. While this is helpful for many startups, especially enterprise SaaS, this didn't really work for us. Focusing on the now when describing Edith led us to lose the long-term vision. It's important to get investors thinking "what if it works?" and so far, our most successful pitches are the ones where we really tie in what we're doing now into the what-if. At the end of the day, our one sentence (subject to change) is a platform for people to take bets on themselves and other people.

I'll share more thoughts when we wrap up the fundraising process.