---
title: "Thought Bytes #56"
slug: "56"
date: "2020-07-09"
type: reflect
excerpt: "Pilot newsletter on refocusing Thought Bytes on the topic of becoming a technical co-founder. The newsletter will rotate around three topics: reflecting on my current journey as Edith's technical co-founder, building products from the ground up, and sharing resources to help you build knowledge as a technical co-founder."
---
After a month-long hiatus, Thought Bytes is coming back better than ever. The idea of being a technical co-founder always seemed daunting. I felt like there were so many variables to get a project off the ground that constantly left me feeling like I wasn't good enough. There were so many frameworks to choose from, so many database options, low-code or no-code, build it or buy it - I didn't know where to start.

The goal of the newsletter is to share what I'm learning as Edith's technical co-founder and to maybe empower you to build your own business. While I'm still in the early stages of building a successful business as the technical co-founder, it's valuable to document the details of my own journey and share what I've learned while the moments are fresh in my mind.

Thought Bytes will continue to live on and be sent to your inbox every Thursday, with some slight rebranding. I played around with Figma a bit to make a new logo and the content of the newsletters will focus exclusively on the topic of becoming a technical co-founder (of course, I'll sneak in important personal news occasionally). The newsletter will revolve around three rotating elements of becoming a technical co-founder:

1. **Reflect** weeks, like this newsletter, focus on practical lessons around building Edith on a day-to-day basis, either technical or non-technical. They'll focus on an update of what we've done at Edith recently, big lessons from things like fundraising, marketing, and building a product, and balancing technical and non-technical aspects of the job with your co-founder(s).
2. **Build** weeks focus on the technical skills and knowledge needed to quickly get a project off the ground. I'll put together concise posts on topics like building a Slack bot, integrating with the Airtable API, and deploying products to production on AWS.
3. **Learn** weeks focus on resources to become a strong technical co-founder. If you've been a long-time subscriber of Thought Bytes, "Learn" weeks will follow more of that format (with a slight emphasis on entrepreneurship), with recommendations and reviews for articles, books, and podcasts.

Thank you for being a supporter of my newsletter, and I'm sorry if this shift in focus isn't the content you signed up for - no hard feelings if you unsubscribe ☺️. The first 55 newsletters and the relationships that came from it were instrumental in launching Edith and I can't reiterate how much your support means to me. Excited to take Thought Bytes in a new direction.

Until next week,

Kevin