---
title: "Thought Bytes #59"
slug: 59
date: "2020-07-30"
type: reflect
excerpt: "My heuristic for build vs. buy after a weeklong journey architecting an ACH payment processing workflow to handle investments in Edith ISAs. "
---
Build vs. buy is a common problem you’ll face when building anything, especially a startup. There’s a lot of tech out there that can help you quickly bootstrap a prototype at low to no cost. But there’s also a lot of great tools to help you build one quickly as well.

I've spent the last few weeks building out the Partner and Fellow portal for the launch of the [Edith Fellowship](https://edithlabs.com/fellowship/). We're funding a group of 15 students through income share agreements, which means we need to be able to handle transactions from partner → Edith → fellow and back.

I spent a lot of time researching how to handle ACH transactions to weigh various implementation options and safely handle sensitive data, leading me to think a lot about build vs. buy.

**My answer to build vs. buy: Build when it's core to the problem you are trying to solve - buy otherwise.**

There's a lot of nuance to the sentence.

First, it's important to understand what the core problem is you are trying to solve. Unless the first customer is you, you probably don't know what the core problem is until your customers tell you. So in the beginning, the answer is almost always buy.

Second, when I say buy, it doesn't literally mean buy. It means leveraging as many pieces of already-built tech to build a simple solution to the hypothesized problem. For example, Slack, email, and Zoom are free services that can provide communication infrastructure for a prototype.

Third, you build because you, and only you, can solve the customer's problem. And you can only do that if you know the core problem.

Going back to the original example, processing payments isn't really core the problem we're solving (but core to the problem that Stripe and Plaid are solving). ACH payments are $5 a pop for Stripe so it's a reasonably small cost to build a solution that gets us off the ground. Our fellows and partners are concerned that their money and data are handled securely, and it's probably better to trust companies that specialize in that.

This allows us to focus on the core problem we're solving: using ISAs to leverage student potential to get access to differentiated mentorship. The more time we spend building for that problem, the more likely we as a business succeed.

So to summarize: **Build when it's core to the problem you are trying to solve - buy otherwise.**

Have a safe week,

Kevin