---
title: "Thought Bytes #61"
slug: 61
date: "2020-08-13"
type: learn
excerpt: Mornings and morning routines - my current attempt to become a morning person and how it can give you space to think and improve your productivity.
---
Ever since graduating high school (and more specifically, 6 a.m. freshman basketball practice), I struggled to wake up early. College friends might recall that I would rarely be up before noon and would struggle to make my 11 am singing class.

Becoming a morning person was something I always wanted to be, but never figured out how to make a serious effort to achieve. Many of the people I look up to, from famous CEOs to athletes, wake up well before sunrise, something I thought was super human.

From Bob Iger's (former CEO of Disney) book *Ride of a Lifetime:*

> To this day, I wake nearly every morning at four-fifteen, though now I do it for selfish reasons: to have time to think and read and exercise before the demands of the day take over. Those hours aren’t for everyone, but however you find the time, it’s vital to create space in each day to let your thoughts wander beyond your immediate job responsibilities, to turn things over in your mind in a less pressured, more creative way than is possible once the daily triage kicks in. I’ve come to cherish that time alone each morning, and am certain I’d be less productive and less creative in my work if I didn’t also spend those first hours away from the emails and text messages and phone calls that require so much attention as the day goes on.

And a quote from my childhood idol, the late Kobe Bryant:

> You wake up at 3, train at 4. 4-6. Come home, eat breakfast, relax. Now you're back at it again 9-11. Relax ... Back at it again, 2-4. Now you're back at it again, 7-9.
By year 5 & 6, it doesn't matter what kind of work they do in the summer - they're never gonna catch up.

I've woken up at 5:30 a.m. every day this week. This is the longest consecutive stretch of waking up before 9 a.m. since high school. My two keys for a night owl to become an early bird:

1. 5 a.m. is the 10x improvement to 10 a.m. 8 a.m. feels a lot like 10 a.m., so it's hard to convince yourself to wake up two hours earlier when it feels about the same. 5 a.m. you get to watch the sunrise, wake up with the city, and experience the quiet similar to the feeling of 1 - 2 a.m. I enjoyed as a night owl.
2. Have a set routine of exactly what you do when you wake up. It's hard to wake up for no reason, but when you wake up to see the sunrise and complete your morning routine, it gives you space to think and build up momentum to start your day.

On that note, I've been building my morning routine on the recommendation of Jim Kwik's book *Limitless.* He has a ridiculous 14-step routine, but I made a simplified version for myself piecing together old and new habits. While everyone's goals with the morning will be different, I hope it's a good starting point to give you ideas to build your own routine.

1. Dream journal

    I also got this idea from *Limitless.* Jim referenced several authors/artists like Mary Shelley with *Frankenstein* who've explicitly mentioned their inspiration being a dream. I've always had crazy dreams and previously started a dream log, but now I consistently try to recall and note what I dreamt about.

2. Wash my face with cold water

    A habit from my AAU basketball days with early morning basketball tournaments, I never go a day without washing my face with cold water.

3. Weigh myself

    I started weighing myself every morning two years ago - it's a good deterrent to unhealthy eating the night before. Irresponsible evenings of drinks, ice cream, and fried foods generally lead to a 2-4 pound bump in weight.

4. Drink a glass of water

    I can't find the article I read, but back in the early 2010s I read something about Steve Nash improving his diet and extending his career by drinking a lot of water. So I always start my day with a huge glass of water.

5. Morning smoothie

    Kevin D Lo is an Instagram fitness guy who recommended replacing breakfast with a smoothie two years ago. I usually blend bananas and frozen strawberries with almond milk, spinach, and protein powder.

6. Journal

    Earlier this year, I read *Digital Minimalism*, which prompted me to start journaling. Journaling is one of the few times in the day where you'll have true solitude with your own thoughts.

7. Push-up workout

    Since quarantine started, I've been doing [ATHLEAN-X's 22 day push-up routine](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ys-JyytCu2s) on repeat. It usually involves a push-up variation and a max set, and it's a good mental and physical challenge in the morning. Probably the part of the routine I look forward to the least.

8. Meditate

    It's a topic I've mentioned frequently in my newsletters. It's important to give your mind time to breathe and focus on nothing. Waking up earlier also helps you not be in a rush, making it easier to meditate for longer periods of time.

9. Read

    On weekdays, I read and take notes on the Stratechery Daily Update; on weekends, I read a chapter of a book I'm currently reading.

10. Productive task

    I usually transition straight into something productive: Edith things on my mind, writing my newsletter, or getting in a workout. By the time the rest of the world wakes up, you've completed your morning routine and something productive.

It's hard to squander time in the morning and easy to waste time at night. Being awake for all hours of daylight on long summer days also is a great feeling. Waking up early is not for everyone, but if it's something you've been wanting to do, it's definitely achievable coming from a habitual night owl.

See you next week ✌️

Kevin