---
title: "Thought Bytes #62"
slug: 62
date: "2020-08-20"
type: reflect
excerpt: Highlights and lowlights on the journey to executing our first ISAs, receiving our first investments from mentors, and funding our first students this week.
---
This week, we executed our first ISAs, received our first investments from our mentors, and funded our first students. More than a year after Nick and I first talked about the idea back on July 13, 2019, the idea is finally real. While the idea and execution have taken many twists and turns, the core thesis remains the same: investing in people you believe in.

Some highlights and lowlights along the way:

1. Resigning

    There's nothing more to catalyze your thinking and progress than quitting a stable job. It's no longer something you look forward to do after a day at work, but something you think and do all the time, and you have to make it work. No longer was I tinkering with prototypes - the thinking shifted to how do I get something out the door, now.

    In the month going full-time, we built and launched a mentorship platform that reached hundreds of students, had over 5,000 on a waitlist, and grew to 60 mentors. It gave us the momentum we needed to recruit students and mentors and raise some money for legal expenses to draft ISAs.

2. Raising money

    This was a process that was completely foreign to me. Building a pitch deck to outline our vision, articulating a good balance of short-term execution and long term vision, and connecting with VCs all over the country. It was a challenge - a lot of "no"s and "you're too early" and "talk to me in the Fall". A lot of iterating on our vision and how we should execute.

    But in the end, it's an unwavering belief that we were right, and everyone passing didn't see what we could. We're grateful to partner with Alex and David from Underdog Labs, a pre-seed fund out in California. They've been instrumental in helping us make the idea into a reality.

3. Writing an ISA

    There's a lot of trust involved when investing in a person. We need mentors willing to part with their capital. We need to trust students to repay. Students and mentors need to trust us to manage the flow of money. After doing a bit of industry research, we knew we had to make our own ISA legal contract for that.

    Nick took the lead on working with our lawyers to draft our contracts. With ISAs having little precedent, we tried drafting simpler versions of the contracts, trying to be the standard for ISAs just as YC is the standard for Simple Agreements for Future Equity (SAFEs). Given our structure of partnering students with mentors, we also had to be creative in our investment structure. We thought of it as similar to a VC fund, with Limited Partners (LPs) putting in the majority of the capital and the General Partners (GPs) putting in smaller amounts of capital and doing more of the hands-on work.

4. Funding our first students

    This leads us to the present day. 12+ fellows, 15+ general and limited partners. It's still an experiment with our hypothesis being **ISAs can help a student change their career by building a long-term relationship with a mentor.** It seems like it's about the money, but it's not - it's about the people. It's a group of 30 or so today, but it's going to be everyone in the future. Excited for what's to come.

See you next week ✌️

Kevin